well Israel's military began its raid on
the hospital in the early hours of
Wednesday morning let's take a Clos look
at what we know about the timeline of
events around
20222 GMT that was just past midnight
local time the spokesman for the Gaza
Health Ministry told Al jazer that
Israeli military vehicles were at the
gates of the alifa medical complex by
then the hospital had already been
surrounded by Israeli forces for six
days then at around 23 GMT Palestinian
Health officials say that the Israeli
military told them that a raid would be
carried out in the coming minutes and
then at 5ast midnight GMT Israeli forces
tweeted that they were quote carrying
out a precise and targeted operation
against Hamas in a specified area in the
hospital based on intelligence
information and operational
necessity now in the hours that followed
as Israeli forces detained at least 200
people in the courtyard of the complex
they went to the basement of all the
buildings they ransacked the hospital
and destroyed equipment according to al-
shifa's director speaking to Al jazer
that doctors couldn't go to the pharmacy
because anyone who Moved throughout the
complex risk getting shot let's go to
hany Mahmud who is now life Us in kanun
inside the Gaza Strip so hany once again
it's very difficult to find out exactly
what is happening at alifa and the very
latest what are you
hearing yes well that is true it is very
difficult to get the latest from inside
the hospital but what we know as a fact
that a little over 24 hours after the
raid just started uh there are no
substantiated evidence whatsoever of the
Israeli claims that a hospital as a
health facility is used as a command
center by Hamas elements or it's a
command center for Hamas leadership all
of that came to uh basically baseless uh
claims uh but what what also we know as
a fact that as a result of that failure
intelligence failure what the Israeli
military is doing is destroying the
hospital damaging all of its facilities
going in building by building destroying
all of its properties inside for example
the specialized surgeries building have
been completely destroyed from inside
all of its basement where it it the
basement that houses a a a medical uh we
house where they have all the medicine
and all the medical equipment all the
upper floors of that building been
destroyed including the including
patient rooms including beds including
all equipment x-ray department been
completely destroyed 200 people been uh
rounded up interrogated uh stripped off
their clothes at the courtyard of the
hospital and taken to unknown areas the
fate of those 200 people from evacuees
and the medical team there is unknown to
us and to anyone else in in the hospital
what seemed to be is a a a reaction of
the Israeli military inside the hospital
as they could not provide the world was
watching for a piece of evidence but
that did did not happen at all so as a
result a retaliation or reaction to that
they went on damaging and severely
destroying uh the properties of of the
hospital uh right right now what
happened as of the early hours of this
morning there was a redeployment of the
Israeli military along with their tanks
and armored vehicles around the main
gate of the
hospital and uh hany we are also hearing
reports that Gaza is on the brink of a
power blackout because of fuel shortages
uh what are you hearing about
that yes well this is what has hospitals
been a a warning of for the past week
since the first week of the war that the
lifeline of the Gaza Strip is a fuel now
food is important medical supplies are
important but if fuel is the major
Lifeline of those hospitals and every
other service companies or service
facilities running in the Gaza Strip now
hospitals here in the southern part are
warning of shutting down Services uh by
the end of the day maximum by early
tomorrow's morning there won't be any
Services as they run out of their fuel
reservation that they had kept here in
the hospital and kept it running for the
past uh for the past months or or or so
also a other than hospitals we have
telecommunication company pal group
announced by the end of the day Thursday
Gaza will go compl in a complet blackout
it will be taken off the grid of
communication as well as Internet as a
result of La of a fuel to run its power
generators to uh generate power to its
the batteries that are keeping those
major uh uh major communic
telecommunication divisions across the
Gaza Strip without those batter
uh as they deplete uh we will go off uh
the line in the coming hours that's what
what is going on and all of this
happening uh under renewed air strikes
here in the southern part of the Gaza
Strip uh place that reminder to our
viewers what people were asked to move
to because it is safe but it not it's
not safe it's equally dangerous equally
risky uh to everyone not only the people
who live here but for for evacuees who
came from the North and the go and the
Gaza City okay thank you for that update
honey mahm there for us in Han
Unice